# From 8.5 to 8.6

Make sure you view this update guide from the tag (version) of GitLab you would
like to install. In most cases this should be the highest numbered production
tag (without rc in it). You can select the tag in the version dropdown at the
top left corner of GitLab (below the menu bar).

If the highest number stable branch is unclear please check the
[GitLab Blog](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/archives.html) for installation
guide links by version.

### 1. Stop server

```bash
# do this as root user
service gitlab stop
```

### 2. Backup

```bash
# do this as root user
cd /usr/local/www/gitlab
rake gitlab:backup:create RAILS_ENV=production
```

### 3. Update GitLab

```bash
# do this as root user
pkg upgrade www/gitlab
```

Any updates of gitlab-shell, gitlab-workhorse or dependending software is detected and done automatically.

### 4. Updates for PostgreSQL Users

Starting with 8.6 users using GitLab in combination with PostgreSQL are required
to have the `pg_trgm` extension enabled for all GitLab databases.
To enable this extension run the following SQL command as a PostgreSQL super
user for _every_ GitLab database:

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS pg_trgm;
```

Certain operating systems might require the installation of extra packages for
this extension to be available. If not already installed, please execute:
  
```bash
# the version-number depends on the used PostgreSQL-version and should be changed accordingly
pkg install postgresql91-contrib
service postgresql restart
```

### 5. Install libs, migrations, etc.

```bash
# do this as root user
cd /home/local/www/gitlab

# Run database migrations
rake db:migrate RAILS_ENV=production

# Clean up assets and cache
rake assets:clean assets:precompile cache:clear RAILS_ENV=production

```
### 6. Start application

    # do this as root user
    service gitlab start
    service nginx restart

### 7. Check application status

Check if GitLab and its environment are configured correctly:

    rake gitlab:env:info RAILS_ENV=production

To make sure you didn't miss anything run a more thorough check:

    rake gitlab:check RAILS_ENV=production

If all items are green, then congratulations, the upgrade is complete!
